# Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Luxembourg Licence

THE WORK (AS DEFINED BELOW) IS MADE AVAILABLE UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS CREATIVE COMMONS PUBLIC LICENCE ("CCPL" OR "LICENCE"). THE WORK IS PROTECTED BY COPYRIGHT, AND/OR WHERE APPLICABLE BY THE SUI GENERIS RIGHT OF DATABASE PRODUCERS AND/OR RELATED RIGHTS. ANY USE OF THE WORK OTHER THAN THAT AUTHORISED WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THIS LICENCE OR BY COPYRIGHT IS STRICTLY PROHIBITED.

IN EXERCISING ANY RIGHTS IN THE WORK MADE AVAILABLE HEREUNDER, YOU AGREE TO COMPLY WITH THE TERMS OF THIS LICENCE. BY VIRTUE OF THE CONTRACTUAL NATURE OF THIS LICENCE, THE LICENSOR GRANTS YOU THE RIGHTS REFERRED TO HEREIN IN CONSIDERATION OF YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THESE CONDITIONS.

1. Definitions
    1. Adaptation" means a work created from the Work, or from the Work and other pre-existing works, such as a translation, adaptation, derivative work, musical arrangement or other modification of a literary or artistic work, or of a phonogram or performance, including film adaptations or any other form in which the Work may be recast, transformed or adapted, including any form derived from the original in a clearly identifiable manner, provided, however, that a work that constitutes a Collection shall not be considered an Adaptation for purposes of this License. By way of clarification, in the event that the Work is a musical work, a performance or a phonogram, synchronization of the Work with a moving image ("synchronization") will be considered an Adaptation for purposes of this License.
    2. Collection" means a collection of literary or artistic works, such as encyclopaedias and anthologies, or performances, phonograms or broadcasts, or any other works or subjects other than the works detailed in section 1(g) below, which, by virtue of the selection and arrangement of their contents constitute intellectual creations, in which the Work is included as a whole in unmodified form with one or more other contributions, each of which constitutes independent and separate works in themselves which are brought together to form a whole. A work that constitutes a Collection will not be considered an Adaptation (as defined above) for purposes of this License.
    3. Distribute" means to make available to the public the original and copies of the Work or Adaptation, as the case may be, by sale or otherwise.
    4. Licence Features" means the key feature of the licence as selected by Licensor and set out in the title of this Licence: Attribution.
    5. Licensor" means any person(s) or entity(ies) offering the Work under the terms of this Licence.
    6. Original Author" means, in the case of a literary or artistic work, any natural person(s) who created the Work or, if no natural person is identified, the legal entity under whose name the Work has been disclosed; or in the case of an anonymous or pseudonymous work, the publisher who is deemed, with respect to third parties, to represent the author, in the case of an audiovisual work, the producer and principal director, in the case of a performance, actors, singers, musicians, dancers and other persons who represent, sing, recite, declaim, play, interpret or otherwise perform literary or artistic works or expressions of folklore, including variety artists, circus performers and puppeteers, in the case of a phonogram, the producer who is the natural or legal person who takes the initiative and assumes responsibility for the first fixation of sounds from a performance or other sounds, or of representations of sounds, in the case of a film, the natural or legal person who takes the initiative and assumes responsibility for the first fixation of an audiovisual work or other succession of moving image sequences, whether or not accompanied by sounds. Please note that only the natural person(s) who created the Work may enjoy the moral rights in this Work. (see 4(d))
    7. Work" means any original literary and/or artistic work, offered under the terms of this Licence, regardless of genre, form or expression, including photographs, databases and computer programs, which is protected by copyright and/or, if recognised under applicable national law, neighbouring rights and/or Sui Generis rights of database producers.
    8. You" means any person or entity exercising rights under this Licence who has not previously breached the terms of this Licence in relation to the Work or who has been expressly permitted by Licensor to exercise rights under this Licence despite a previous breach.
    9. Public Performance" means any public performance of the Work and any communication to the public of the Work by any means, including wire, wireless, broadcast, satellite, cable or network transmission. Communication to the public also means making protected works available in such a way that the public can access them from a place and at a time individually chosen by the public.
    10. Reproduce" means to reproduce the Work in any way and in any form whatsoever.

2. Exceptions to Copyright. Nothing in this License is intended to abridge, limit or restrict any unprotected uses of the title or rights under the limitations or exceptions provided in connection with copyright protection under applicable copyright or other laws.

3. Grant of License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Licence, Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, perpetual licence (for the duration of the applicable copyright term) to exercise the following rights in the Work:

    1. Reproduce the Work, incorporate it into one or more Collections and reproduce the Work as incorporated into Collections;
    2. Create and Reproduce Adaptations, provided that such Adaptations, including any translation in any medium, take all reasonable steps to show, emphasise or clearly identify that modifications have been made to the Original Work. For example, in the case of a translation, it should be stated that "the original work has been translated from English into Spanish" or, in the case of a modification, that "the original work has been modified";
    3. Distribute and Publicly Represent the Work, including as incorporated into Collections;
    4. Distribute and publicly Perform Adaptations.
    5. For all intents and purposes:
        1. Compulsory, non-waivable licence schemes. If the right to receive royalties under any statutory or compulsory license cannot be waived, Licensor reserves the exclusive right to receive such royalties arising from Your exercise of the rights granted under this License;
        2. Compulsory, Waiverable License Plans. If the right to receive royalties under any statutory or compulsory license is waivable, Licensor waives the exclusive right to receive such royalties arising from Your exercise of the rights granted under this License;
        3. Optional License Plans. Licensor waives the right to receive royalties, either individually or, if Licensor is a member of a rights management organization that administers optional licensing arrangements, through such organization, arising from the exercise by You of the rights granted under this License.
    6. Where the Work is a database, extract and re-use substantial parts of the Work.

The aforementioned rights may be exercised on any medium and in any format now known or unknown. The foregoing rights include the right to make any technical modifications required to enable the rights to be exercised on other media and in other formats. If Licensor is the owner of sui generis database rights pursuant to the transposition into national law of the EU Database Directive, Licensor waives such rights. All rights not expressly granted by Licensor are reserved hereunder, including without limitation the rights set forth in Section 3(e).

4. Restrictions. The license granted in Section 3 above is expressly granted subject to the following restrictions:
    1. You may Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work only in accordance with this License. You must include a copy of this License or the related Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) with each copy of the Work that you publicly Distribute or Perform. You may not propose or impose conditions on the Work that would restrict the terms of this License or the ability of the recipient of the Work to exercise the rights granted to such recipient under the terms of this License. You may not sublicense the Work. You must keep intact all notices that refer to this Licence and the warranty and liability disclaimer with any copy of the Work that you publicly distribute or perform. When You publicly Distribute or Perform the Work, You may not include any technical protection measures on the Work that would restrict the ability of any of Your beneficiaries of the Work to exercise the rights granted to such beneficiary under the terms of this License. This Section 4(a) applies to the Work as incorporated into a Collection, but does not require the Collection itself to be independently subject to the terms of this License. If You create a Collection, You must, at the request of any Licensor and to the extent reasonably practicable, remove from the Collection any acknowledgement of source, as provided in Section 4(b), in accordance with the request. If You create an Adaptation, You shall, at the request of any Licensor and to the extent practicable, remove all attribution from the Adaptation in accordance with Section 4(b).
    2. If You publicly Distribute or Perform the Work, or any Adaptations or Collections, You shall, unless a request is made pursuant to Section 4(a), keep intact all copyright notices in the Work and state, in a manner appropriate to the medium or means You are using: (i) the name of the Original Author (or pseudonym, if any) if provided and/or, if the Original Author and/or Licensor has designated another party or parties as such (e.g., a sponsor, a publisher, etc.), the name(s) of such other party(ies). (ii) the title of the Work, if provided; (iii) to the extent practicable, the URI, if any, that Licensor claims is associated with the Work, unless such URI does not refer to the copyright notice or license grant in connection with the Work; and (iv) consistent with Section 3(b), in the case of an Adaptation, a source indication identifying the use of the Work in the Adaptation (e.g., "French translation of the Work"). (e.g. "French translation of the Work by the Original Author" or "screenplay based on the Original Author's original Work"). The indication of source required by this Article 4(b) may be made by any reasonable means, provided, however, that in the case of an Adaptation or a Collection, the said indication of source must be mentioned in a manner that is at least as visible as the indications relating to the other authors who contributed to it. For all intents and purposes, You may only use the indication of source required by this Section exclusively for the purposes of attribution as aforesaid and, in exercising Your rights under this Licence, You may not, implicitly or explicitly, assert or imply any relationship with, sponsorship or endorsement by the Original Author, Licensor and/or the Invested Parties, as the case may be, of You or Your use of the Work, without the separate, express, written and prior permission of the Original Author, Licensor and/or the Invested Parties.
    3. For all intents and purposes: The restrictions set forth in Section 4(a) do not apply to those portions of a Work that qualify exclusively as a Work because they are governed by sui generis database right pursuant to the transposition into national law of the EU Database Directive,
    4. For all practical purposes: The moral rights, to the extent that they are recognized by applicable national law, of the natural person who is the Original Author of the Work or of the natural persons who are the Original Authors of the Work, are not affected by this License.

5. Representations, warranties and disclaimers

EXCEPT BY MUTUAL WRITTEN AGREEMENT OF THE PARTIES AND TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, LICENSOR PROVIDES THE WORK ON AN "AS IS" BASIS AND MAKES NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS OF ANY KIND. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF WARRANTIES, SO THE ABOVE EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

6. Limitation of liability. EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO YOU UNDER ANY DOCTRINE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, PUNITIVE OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS LICENSE OR USE OF THE WORK, EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7. Termination of the Licence

    1. This Licence and the rights granted hereunder will terminate automatically upon any breach by You of the terms of this Licence. Persons or entities who have received Adaptations or Collections from You under this License will not have their licenses terminated, provided that such persons or entities comply with all of the terms and conditions of such licenses. Sections 1, 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive termination of this Licence.
    2. Subject to the foregoing, the licence granted hereunder is for the duration of the copyright applicable to the Work. Without prejudice to the foregoing, Licensor reserves the right at any time to exploit the Work under a different licence or to cease distribution of the Work provided, however, that such decision shall not have the effect of terminating this Licence (or any other licence granted or to be granted under this Licence), provided that this Licence shall survive termination as aforesaid.

8. Miscellaneous provisions

    1. Each time You Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work or a Collection, Licensor grants the recipient a license to the Work on the same terms and conditions as those granted to You under this License.
    2. Whenever You publicly Distribute or Perform an Adaptation, Licensor shall grant to the recipient a licence to the original Work on the same terms and conditions as granted to You under this Licence.
    3. If any provision of this License is held to be invalid or unenforceable under applicable law, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not invalidate the remaining provisions of this License. In such event and without any action by the parties, such provision shall be modified to the minimum extent necessary to render it valid and enforceable.
    4. No term or provision of this License shall be deemed waived and no breach accepted unless agreed to in writing and signed by the party concerned.
    5. This License constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the Work licensed hereunder. There are no understandings, agreements or representations with respect to the Work that are not set forth herein. Licensor shall not be bound by any additional terms that may be contained in any document provided by You. This License may not be modified without the written consent of both parties.
