---
title: Testing methodology
layout: layouts/base.njk
description: Test methodology documenting the steps used to check whether a RAWeb criterion is compliant or not
eleventyNavigation:
  title: Resources
  parent: resources
  order: 3
---

This document has been drawn up as part of the resources to accompany the introduction of version 1 of the Web Accessibility Assessment Framework (RAWeb).

It is intended for anyone wishing to check that web content complies with the RAWeb. It is a test methodology that documents the steps involved in checking whether or not a RAWeb criterion is met. This methodology is therefore to be used in addition to the RAWeb technical framework and cannot be used on its own. It does not replace a thorough reading of the technical framework, nor does it replace a RAWeb training.

For each of the tests of a criterion, there is a corresponding test procedure. The implementation of this procedure may sometimes require the use of specific tools, otherwise a browser is sufficient to perform most of the tests.
A list of tools is also provided to assist in carrying out the tests. They have been selected both because they are frequently used by experts in the field and because they make it easier to find certain results.

<div class="fr-callout"><p class="fr-text--lg">
The test methodology is now available for each test on the <a href="criteres.html">criteria and tests</a> page.</p>
</div>

### Tools

The most useful tool is the code inspector available in every browser. It makes it easy to find the elements and attributes required for an accessibility test. Nowadays, development tools also offer features for accessing the properties of the accessibility tree exposed by the browser. However, this information does not replace the need for technical assistance when a criterion or test requires it.

The assistive technologies listed in the chosen test environment constitute a second set of essential tools (see the section [Testing environment](environnement.html/#contenu)). They are required to ensure that accessible content (alternatives to images, link headings, table titles, etc.) is rendered correctly, particularly in cases where examining the code alone would not suffice.

Other tools are available to help search for content elements. They are often presented as browser extensions and can be used to explore one or more aspects of an accessibility test.

The following toolbars are browser extensions that make it easier to visually locate certain elements in a document:

- [Web Developer Toolbar for Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/web-developer/): a toolbar for developers that can help you visually locate certain elements in a document to check its accessibility;
- [Web Developer Toolbar for Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/web-developer/bfbameneiokkgbdmiekhjnmfkcnldhhm): the same toolbar as above, for Chrome.

In addition to the simple toolbar, other tools provide a complete analysis of the document by visually highlighting accessibility errors on the page or, conversely, beneficial elements. Filters are then often used to display only some of these aspects. This is what Wave offers, a solution available both online (http://wave.webaim.org) and as a browser extension (https://wave.webaim.org/extension/).

Although it is no longer necessary to check the validity of the source code, it can be useful to use the HTML validator to search for anomalies. Validation of the source code of an HTML document uses the W3C online validator (https://validator.w3.org/nu/). Note that to validate the source code generated by the browser, use the "Text input" option in the "Check by" listbox and copy the HTML source available from the browser's code inspector into the multiline input box.
Browser extensions are also available, but you need to be careful, as the validation algorithms of these extensions are not necessarily up to date with the W3C validator and the results obtained may therefore be different.

Various tools are available for checking colour contrasts:

- [WCAG Contrast checker for Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/wcag-contrast-checker/): Firefox extension that automatically checks text colour contrasts in a document;
- [WCAG Contrast checker for Chrome](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/wcag-color-contrast-check/plnahcmalebffmaghcpcmpaciebdhgdf): same extension as above for Chrome;
- [Colour Contrast Analyser](https://developer.paciellogroup.com/resources/contrastanalyser/): Windows or Mac application for checking colour contrasts.

A very useful extension is available for checking the document tree structure and headings hierarchy:

- [HeadingsMap for Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/headingsmap/): Firefox extension that lets you preview the document map and its tree structure;
- [HeadingsMap for Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/headingsmap/flbjommegcjonpdmenkdiocclhjacmbi): same extension as above for Chrome.

Various tools can be used to analyse office files, depending on the file format:

- [PAC (PDF Accessibility Checker) 2024 for Windows](https://pac.pdf-accessibility.org/en): software for checking certain accessibility issues in PDF documents;
- Recent versions of Microsoft Office offer a built-in accessibility validation feature (see the article [Make your Word documents accessible to people with disabilities](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/make-your-word-documents-accessible-to-people-with-disabilities-d9bf3683-87ac-47ea-b91a-78dcacb3c66d) and related articles);
- [Ace by DAISY App](https://inclusivepublishing.org/toolbox/ace-by-daisy-app/) is a tool for checking the accessibility of an EPUB file.

Finally, an old but still useful program for assessing the potential of certain web content to cause epileptic seizures: [PEAT (Photosensitive Epilepsy Analysis Tool) for Windows](https://trace.umd.edu/peat).
