---
title: On each web page, does each function for downloading an office document meet one of these conditions?
steps:
  - The document to be downloaded is compatible with accessibility;
  - An alternative version, compatible with accessibility, can be downloaded;
  - There is an alternative version in HTML format that is compatible with accessibility.
---

1. Find in the document the links and form controls (a form button or download form, for example) allowing to you to download a file in office format.
2. For each file in office format, check the presence of an alternative version presented as accessible:
   - For documents in .pdf format, check compliance with the [PDF accessibility assessment framework (RAPDF)](../rapdf1/index.html).
   - For documents in .doc or .docx format, analyse the file with the Microsoft Office accessibility checker (from version 2010) and check that there are no accessibility errors (see note).
   - For documents in .odt format, analyse the document with the LibreOffice accessibility checker (from version 7.0).
   - For documents in EPUB/DAISY format, analyse the document with an EPUB/DAISY editor.
   - For documents in .html format, analyse the accessibility of the document.
3. If this is the case for each file in office format, **the test is validated**.

Note on Microsoft Office: the software offers an accessibility checker as standard (accessible via the "File &gt; Information &gt; Check for problems &gt; Check accessibility" menu).

Note on LibreOffice: the software offers an accessibility checker as standard, accessible via the "Tools &gt; Accessibility Check" menu. 

Note on the EPUB format: the Ace by DAISY App tool enables you to validate an EPUB 3 file efficiently.
