---
title: Does the content generated by each [transformation](#transformation) comply with the [digital accessibility rules](#digital-accessibility-rules) (excluding special cases)?
---

1. From the editing functions (a text editor, but it can also be a media library or any other interface that lets you enter text or define properties), enter the types of content proposed by the editor (heading, list, table, image, etc.). Also use the various parameters for defining accessibility information (enter the text alternative for an image, add a description to a link, etc.)
2. Save your entries.
3. View the generated content 
	- in the editing functionality (for example, in the text editor);
	- and in the content publication interface (for example, the publication web page).
4. For each piece of content in web format (HTML, CSS), check 
	- that the information required for it to comply with the [RAWeb](../raweb1/index.html) (e.g. alternative image, heading levels) is preserved in the generated content.
	- that the information, if restructured, remains compatible with assistive technologies (for example, if the author enters an HTML table and, after saving, the tool linearises the table, the restructured information must be understandable to users of assistive technologies as it would have been in its original form).
5. For each content item in PDF format, check 
	- that the information required for it to comply with the [RAPDF](../rapdf1/index.html) (e.g. alternative image, heading levels) is preserved in the generated content.
	- that the information, if restructured, remains compatible with assistive technologies (for example, if the author enters a table and, after saving, the tool linearises the table, the restructured information must be understandable to users of assistive technologies as it would have been in its initial form).
6. For all content in non-web format that is not PDF, check 
	- the information required to comply with [section 10 Non-web documents](https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_en/301500_301599/301549/03.02.01_60/en_301549v030201p.pdf#page=52) of European standard EN 301 549 v3.2.1 is preserved in the generated content.
	- that the information, if restructured, remains compatible with assistive technologies (for example, if the author enters a table and, after saving, the tool linearises the table, the restructured information must be understandable to users of assistive technologies as it would have been in its initial form).
7. If this is the case, the test is validated.
